TP3 updates (#29513)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/op-installing-pipelines-operator-in-web-console.adoc

[id="op-installing-pipelines-operator-in-web-console_{context}"]
= Installing the {pipelines-title} Operator in web console

You can install {pipelines-title} using the Operator listed in the {product-title} OperatorHub. When you install the {pipelines-title} Operator, the custom resources (CRs) required for the pipelines configuration are automatically installed along with the Operator.

> The default Operator custom resource definition (CRD) `config.operator.tekton.dev` is now replaced by `tektonconfigs.operator.tekton.dev`.  In addition, the operator provides the following additional CRDs to individually manage OpenShift Pipelines components:

Reviewer: s/operator/Operator

 `tektonpipelines.operator.tekton.dev`, `tektontriggers.operator.tekton.dev` and `tektonaddons.operator.tekton.dev`.

> If you have OpenShift Pipelines already installed on your cluster, the existing installation is seamlessly upgraded. The operator will replace the instance of `config.operator.tekton.dev` on your cluster with an instance of `tektonconfigs.operator.tekton.dev` and additional objects of the other CRDs as necessary.

Reviewer: s/operator/Operator

[WARNING]
====
If you manually changed your existing installation, such as, changing the target namespace in the `config.operator.tekton.dev` CRD instance by making changes to the `resource name - cluster` field, then the upgrade path is not smooth. In such cases, the recommended work flow is to uninstall your installation and reinstall the {pipelines-title} Operator.
====

The {pipelines-title} Operator now provides the option to choose the components that you want to install by specifying profiles as part of the `TektonConfig` CR. The `TektonConfig` CR is automatically installed when the Operator is installed.
The supported profiles are:

* Basic: This installs only Tekton pipelines.
* Default: This installs Tekton pipeline and Tekton triggers.

> * All: This is the default profile used when the `TektonConfig` CR is installed. This profile installs all of the Tekton components: Tekton Pipelines, Tekton Triggers, Tekton Addons(which include ClusterTasks, ClusterTriggerBindings, ConsoleCLIDownload, ConsoleQuickStart and ConsoleYAMLSample).

Reviewer: Addons, which include ` ClusterTasks`, `ClusterTriggerBindings`, `ConsoleCLIDownload`, `ConsoleQuickStar`t and `ConsoleYAMLSample`.

====

[discrete]
.Procedure

. In the *Administrator* perspective of the web console, navigate to *Operators* -> *OperatorHub*.

. Use the *Filter by keyword* box to search for `{pipelines-title}` Operator in the catalog. Click the *{pipelines-title}* Operator tile.

. Read the brief description about the Operator on the *{pipelines-title}* Operator page. Click *Install*.

. On the *Install Operator* page:
+
.. Select *All namespaces on the cluster (default)* for the *Installation Mode*. This mode installs the Operator in the default `openshift-operators` namespace, which enables the Operator to watch and be made available to all namespaces in the cluster.

.. Select *Automatic* for the *Approval Strategy*. This ensures that the future upgrades to the Operator are handled automatically by the Operator Lifecycle Manager (OLM). If you select the *Manual* approval strategy, OLM creates an update request. As a cluster administrator, you must then manually approve the OLM update request to update the Operator to the new version.

.. Select an *Update Channel*.

> *** The *ocp-<4.x>* channel enables installation of the latest stable release of the {pipelines-title} Operator.

Reviewer 2: I think we have `stable` channel instead of *ocp-<4.x>*

/cc @khrm @piyush-garg @nikhil-thomas

> *** The *preview* channel enables installation of the latest preview version of the {pipelines-title} Operator, which may contain features that are not yet available from the 4.x update channel.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
*** The *preview* channel enables installation of the latest preview version of the {pipelines-title} Operator, which may contain features that are not yet available from the `stable` channel.
```

+
[NOTE]
====

> The {pipelines-title} Operator now provides the option to choose the components that you want to install by specifying profiles.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The {pipelines-title} Operator now provides the option to choose the components that you want to install by specifying profiles as part of `TektonConfig` CR.
```

The supported profiles are:

* Basic: This installs only Tekton pipelines.
* Default: This installs Tekton pipeline and Tekton triggers.

> * All: This installs all of the Tekton components.

Reviewer 2: @Preeticp as `TektonConfig` CR will be auto installed when Operator is installed 
So we may need to change/add a word here that by default the used profile is `All`

Reviewer 3: Do we mention anywhere what are the Tekton components available?

Reviewer 2: ya that would make sense
when 
`All: This installs all of the Tekton components.`
@Preeticp here `Tekton components` means
Tekton Pipelines, Tekton Triggers, Tekton Addons(which include ClusterTasks, ClusterTriggerBindings, ConsoleCLIDownload, ConsoleQuickStart and ConsoleYAMLSample)
